
Here in the CoM we are developing a comprehensive framework to identify, categorize, and understand the modular building blocks of social systems.

Our current categorizes of mechanisms are composed of:

1. Voting Mechanisms
2. Power Distribution Mechanisms
3. Resource and Capital Allocation Mechanisms
4. Reputation and Credibility Mechanisms
5. Conflict Resolution Mechanisms
6. Consensus Mechanisms
7. Communication Mechanisms
8. Accountability Mechanisms
9. Transparency Mechanisms 
10. Incentive Mechanisms
11. Evolutionary and Adaptive Mechanisms

While transparency is not necessarily a mechanism in itself, it is a common attribute, and it can be a system. A transparency system would likely be composed of data authentication, and storage of said information in an accessible and open environment. If the information is relayed to another system for this specific purpose than we can view it as a system itself rather a measurement of a system of mechanism. 

### UMAs

Universal Measurement Attributes:

12. Transparency

- Visibility of process
- Information accessibility
- Decision traceability

13. Privacy

- Confidentiality level
- Personal data protection
- Anonymity options

14. Complexity

- Computational difficulty
- Interaction complexity
- Cognitive load

15. Participation

- Inclusivity
- Barrier to entry
- Representation diversity

16. Accountability

- Auditability
- Responsibility tracking
- Error correction

17. Performance

- Efficiency
- Effectiveness
- Adaptability

18. Trust

- Predictability
- Fairness
- Manipulation resistance

19. Scalability

- Horizontal expansion
- Resource efficiency
- Network resilience
